SRAssembler
===========

Local assembly of targeted regions by homologous sequences

Introduction
========

SRAssembler is a pipeline program that can assemble genomic DNA reads using homologous sequences as query input. We first align the reads that can locally be mapped onto those query sequences. These mapped reads then serve as seed reads, which are used to find other reads partially mapped to them. This in-silico ”chromosome walking” strategy can be used to recursively gather reads that are associated with regions of interest. The mined reads can be further assembled into contigs, which can subsequently and easily be annotated by current spliced alignment programs. This idea is based on the in-silico chromosome walking program called [Tracembler](http://www.plantgdb.org/tool/tracembler/), which assembles entries from the outdated NCBI Trace Archive.

In this pipeline, we use the following steps to assemble the homologous loci of DNA regions of interest:

Step1: Align protein or cDNA sequences to whole genome shotgun reads by Vmatch, then we get initial seed reads.

Step2: Start the "chromosome walking" by recursively finding reads mapped to seed reads or contigs. In each round, if option -a specified, all reads found at this point will be assembled as contigs, and these contigs will serve as new query sequences of next round.

Step3: The recursion is terminated when no more reads could be found or the maximum number of rounds is reached, which is specified in -n option.

Step4: Several assemblies with different k-mer values, the overlap length of reads, are generated by SOAPdenovo. The assembly with longest contig will be selected. You can specify the minimum contig length reported (option -m).

Step5: The gene structure is predicted by GenomeThreader, GeneSeqer, Exonerate or Snap.
